>> Mike North: One thing
that you'll need to know for
this exercise we're gearing up for
here is how to terminate a worker.
So once you get reference,
once you get an instance of this worker,
you can call that terminate on it and
that will stop everything.
If it is in the middle of
a function at that point,
it may not continue
invoking that function.
It is like a full-on slam the brakes,
we're done.
So this is a good thing to
do if you're absolutely sure
that your worker is done with
what it was set out to do.
You would want to do this because
when you think about the overhead of
spinning one of this things
up it's got its own scope,
its got its own part of
the JavaScript event loop.
The internal mechanism that it uses to
figure out which functions to call, and
schedules that time out on its own.
So there is a non-trivial overhead for
creating one of these things.
The mental model I want you to use is,
it's on the order of
somewhere between 100 and
1,000 function closures.
So it is not a light thing.
You don't wanna have 1,000 of these spun
up and to implement a parallel map, right?
JavaScript is just not
designed to have tons and
tons of workers functioning
at the same time.
But if you have a task that you wanna
complete, and in our case it's,
I have an image with the QR code in it,
find the QR code, decode it for me.
It's a bunch of an image analysis and
like linear algebra,
do that task, give me the data back,
then I can terminate worker.
It's job is done.
It's almost like a disposable thing.
So we'll start talking about service
workers towards the end of the day,
like when once it pass it back to Steve.
Important to know that you cannot
terminate a service worker in this
way because it is highly likely that doing
so would harm your user's experience.
Because they need to be,
it is responsible for
handling navigation events and
potentially satisfying HTTP requests.
And there would be no way of knowing
whether it is safe to interrupt it.
So you'd almost always end up
shooting yourself in the foot.
So that API is actually
disabled in service workers.
>> Mike North: And finally, I'm not
sure if I made this totally clear at
the beginning, you can instantiate more
than one worker off of the same script and
it will get their own scope,
each instance gets its own scope.
>> Speaker 2: Except for
the original scope, right?
So the original scope is still a linear
path, instantiate, instantiate,
instantiate, instantiate.
>> Mike North: So let's call it-
>> Speaker 2: Then they go off and
do their thing and come back.
>> Mike North: Let's call
it the application scope.
Our app, that is one scope and
then each worker has its own scope.
Even if it's the exact same file that
we're using to instantiate these workers.
Right, maybe they each represent creating
a real time connection to something,
we connect the three different services,
that could be the same JS file.
A new worker means a new scope
>> Speaker 3: One question?
>> Mike North: Yes?
>> Speaker 3: In a mobile device,
if the user actually closes or
terminates that app, or web page or
whatever, would the worker get killed and.
>> Mike North: Indeterminate,
it is not, so there are several things
that can happen, and
it depends on a mobile device.
In Safari, if you're a mobile developer,
you kind of learn about these things so
I can only speak to iOS cuz I don't
have deep Android familiarity.
There are several different
modes you can go into.
And I'm gonna call the first one sleep,
which is if the user sort of tabs away and
then maybe they're just getting
a password and then they come back.
Your worker has been
continuing the whole time.
Think of it just like a stutter
in the execution of functions,
you're sort of frozen while the user's
tabbing over and then come back.
If the user goes away for
an extended period of time,
think of that as hibernate
where we take all of that state
it's not longer in fast memory,
we save it to disc.
At which point,
your worker may have terminated, right?
It may not be there.
Like these things, the browser can
kill it whenever it wants basically.
So you typically want to wrap these things
with a set timeout, or to periodically,
a common pattern is ping-pong where
you send the worker a ping and
you get a pong back.
And on a mobile device, when you can
come back and say, are you still here?
Answer me if you're still there.
And that's a way that you
can verify it's there and
then maybe create a new one passing
it state again so it can do it's job.
But there is no standard that dictates
exactly how this should happen and
it is different on iOS versus Android.
iOS is very, very, very protective over
allowing anything at all to happen in
the background, even native iOS apps.
There are less than a dozen things
that you can do in the background,
push notification, background download.
You can play audio in the background.
They added the ability to play video, but
only on 6 core, really powerful tablets.
So they're gonna shut Safari down
whenever it's not in focus so
that it doesn't eat battery.